dashes a la shmoop
Robert is a dashing young man with his
romantic and adventurous nature there's
nothing he loves so much as sweeping the
ladies off their feet with his amazing
grammar and which punctuation mark does
dashing Robert like to deploy in his
quest for love why the dash of course a
dash is a dramatic kind of punctuation
mark while a colon may go unnoticed in
the middle of a sentence because it does
nothing more than service as setup to
additional information and frankly a lot
of jokes in the grammar community a dash
signals that something exciting is about
to happen it tells us to buckle our
seatbelts because the ride is about to
get all kinds of bumpy for example let's
say dashing Robert is discussing his
vacation plans with a lady friend he
tells her I have a destination in mind :
my aunt Murrells lake house Robert would
use the colon because one let's be
honest aunt Murrells lake house is
totally blend not worthy of a dash
however if Robert has somewhere more
exotic and exciting plan for his
vacation he'd say I have a destination
in mind - a cruise around the Med on my
luxurious yacht the cruise around the
Med oh how dashing or what if Robert is
telling one of his conquest what he
likes for dinner well I eat the same
thing every Thursday night : macaroni
and cheese with a sliced up hot dog do
anything inside of it yeah sorry Bob but
Kraft out of a box only merits of :
however if Robert says instead I eat the
same thing every Thursday night - the
nine course tasting menu from the French
Laundry while $500 dinner is from
michelin-starred restaurants so deserve
a - now that we've talked a little about
how dashes are full of drama let's talk
about the different types of dashes
first comes the M - which is long and
then the N - which is short in most
sentences like our examples involving
Robert we use the longer M - which can
be inserted into a sentence in one of
two ways either from the special
character menu in word or by typing two
hyphens next to one another the hyphen
key is in between the zero key and the
equal sign key at the top of the
keyboard this thing right here whatever
happens don't screw up and accidentally
put a hyphen in place of a - hyphens are
used to split or join words not to
signal to the reader that there's
impending awesomeness ahead as for the N
or short - it's only uses to indicate a
range of inclusive numbers for example
if dashing Robert were to email one of
his girlfriends with a message that
includes the dates he's going to be in
Paris he'd bust out the end - if Robert
wants to let another lady friend know
when to meet for their weekly tango
lesson he'd send her a note like this
one we will dance every Wednesday night
at 8:00 p.m. from January first and -
January 29th essentially the end - is
taking the place of the word - in this
example one final note about dashes be
they of the M or n variety we can put a
space on either side of a dash so that
our sentence would read dashing Robert
cave girlfriend number three a very
special present for her birthday
space M - space a pug puppy or we can
leave out those spaces so that we end up
with dashing Robert gave girlfriend
number three a very special present for
her birthday M - a pug puppy we can use
spaces on either side of a dash or not
it's a stylistic decision on the
author's part just be sure to keep it
consistent and now dashing Robert must
away he has so much to do - and so many
more hearts to steal subscribe to check
out more equally fantabulous videos you
should see the subscribe button just
below this one
if you're having trouble locating it we
recommend you watch our video how to
find this subscribe button